BPMN/FlowCharts: As a Business Analyst, its was my job to not only gather requirements but translate them into smaller visual components describing how a partilcuar module operates,
who are the key players in that module,how does the data flows, what are the pivots, the decision points, alternate flows, areas of failure.


Mini Case Study:
Lets take an exmaple of an online food delievry app. Here the key players are the customers,restaurants and the riders all of whom are onlboarded as part of the platform.
In an idea situtaion the flow is described as below. I have given the following promtp in Lucidchart.AI


Start: Customer logs in
    → Browse food options
    → Select and order food
    → Make payment
        → [Decision] Payment successful?
            → Yes: Create order
                → Restaurant receives order notification
                → Restaurant accepts order
                → Prepare food
                → Mark order as ready
                → Notify delivery system / assign driver
                → Driver picks up order
                → Update status: Out for delivery
                → Deliver food to customer
                → Update status: Delivered
                → Send delivery confirmation to customer
                → End: Order completed successfully
            → No: Notify payment failure
                → Return to: Make payment

Now as a BA, this step only comes after I have gathered all the requirements from the stakeholders, understood the process flows,alternate flows, pivots, exception handling etc.
My next step is to validate with my SME and make further changes until it alighns with the business processes.

Key Takeways:
Since each organisation may have multiple business processes, its imprtant to identify one and break it down into smaller components instead of making it a monstrous diagram that may be confusing.
Define start and end points as they help establish boundaries in the flow.

AI is still learning. In my opinion,swimlanes are its still something many diagrammatic AI tools are unable to pull off. Lucid AI cant , Miro also struggles, however they do have pre existing strcutured
templates that will surely help.
Whimsical AI to my knowledge is till way behind. its starts to nterpret and gets messy with decsions.





